hey guys welcome back to tutorial
Tuesday this is adam and i'm going to
show you how to play my new song which
is called before my eyes closed i just
posted this on youtube on friday so if
you'd like to check it out if you
haven't already or if you'd like to look
at it as you're learning the song to
check yourself um I'll include a link
somewhere around here okay so first we
have to tune up this is not in standard
tuning i tuned each string up a half
step which is one fret higher than
normal so instead of GCE a right G sharp
C sharp F a sharp okay so first I'll
show you the first couple chords and
then i'm going to show you the
finger-picking pattern then i use and
i'm just going to play through it really
slowly so you can follow along okay and
hopefully i'll be able to post a tab for
this eventually also but i think you can
learn it just from the video so start
off with this d shape and this is I mean
it's a G shape I'm pinging a guitar
that's a d shape and guitar but I'm
ukulele it's G but it's actually going
to sound like a g-sharp just because we
tuned everything up i'm using ecology so
that's open 2nd fret third fret second
fret and i usually do like a little
hammer on ok then the next chord you're
gonna lift up your middle finger off the
first string put it on the 3rd fret of
the 3rd string lift up your index finger
so we're just holding those two third
frets there and then the index finger is
going to go on the 2nd fret of the first
string and the ring finger is going to
go on the fourth fret of the 4th string
so it's 4332 so that transitioning in
the third quarters for this e- shape
which is open 4th fret third fret second
fret ok now as far as the finger-picking
pattern goes it's almost random to a
certain extent there is sort of a
pattern i use but it's random in that
each time i play this song it sounds a
little different so why usually do is at
least in the beginning so i'll either
strong or I'll just kind of roll fingers
like that don't do a hammer on there is
a good hammer ok and then I sometimes do
it or what I usually do is a little
flick where I kind of and I do a
tutorial on how to do this on guitar
which I think I'll include a link maybe
somewhere over here but um I do is I
flick out with my index finger and my
thumb might make a little tab ok so that
cito might help you figure out that
technique and then after that is the
random part more or less what I do here
is I'm just kind of alternating with
this fourth string just kind of in
random order but I'm always playing a
this fourth string alternating with one
of these three strings so it sounds like
sort of the pattern ok I'm going to play
through it very slowly now I'm going to
try to go slow enough that you can
follow along and get your fingers to
match mine all right here we go
that cord it's kind of hard to see but
its second fret second fret second fret
open then the next part so it's with a
hammer on okay and that second part
repeats itself and then we go through
the song again just repeating everything
I kind of the second time around I kind
of extent the taps more
so I'm just getting that tap end with
the flick once again that tutorial will
be really helpful to develop that
percussive playing skill and so it
repeats again and then at the very end I
just mix it up a little bit where this
is the same to this forward to this
chord and then we go up here now that
before we've gone this time we go up
though so we're here so as you can see
there I'm borrowing both of these
strings and I'm holding just that fret
also so the very end is
okay um best of luck i'll try to make a
tab like this as i said i'll make a tab
for this eventually but i think you can
learn from the video and don't worry if
it doesn't sound exactly like how I play
it because as I said it's almost random
to a certain extent the way I play it so
when I either play it it doesn't sound
like you know that video i posted every
time so best of luck and I'll see you
guys next time take care